I'm back in that first angular app we created in the first course module, there we haven't changed that
much, just added this line in the app component
and now I will build up on that project and use it for our min project.
Now first of all let's understand this folder structure a bit better and let's understand how an angular
application actually starts.
For that, I need to start it
so I'll bring up my terminal, integrate it into my IDE here and run ngServe to start that build process
which we should keep on running and which also starts this development server where we can preview
our angular application.
Here it is, not that spectacular
to be honest
but we'll add a lot more to it very soon.
Now to understand how it starts, let's have a look at its source code actually and if we inspect that
source code, what we can see is that we don't see a lot, do we?
We've got a basic html5 skeleton
and then we got a bunch of script imports at the bottom, that clearly is important but that's roughly
it,
there is no content on this page
and yes our page doesn't have that much content on it,
it's only our first app but at least this text should be visible right, but we don't see that text here.
Instead we just have app route here and this is an important thing,
this is not a default html tag or element,
this clearly has to be related to our angular application, as do all these scripts imports down there
and that's exactly what's happening.
If we go back to our application, we can clearly see that what we see on the page is the content of
the app component html file
and that really is important because angular thinks in components and what we do here is we build our
own components
or you could say our own html elements. What we loaded, the page we loaded actually was this index.html
file and there we see that app root right,
we covered that before.
Now the script imports are missing here because they're injected
but it's this app root element that is loaded
and as you already learned, this is our own component,
here is the selector, our own html tag we assign so to say.
So this is how this is roughly connect that and the cli in this build process which we have up and running
takes our code, bundles it up, adds all the angular logic from the angular framework to it and therefore
creates a bunch of script files which we don't see here because it's loaded in memory for development
and injects these script file imports into the index.html file
and what's happening there in the end is that this actually then detects this app root element and
swaps it with the content of our component and content is not just the visual part, the html part,
it would also be any logic we have here and we will add a lot of logic throughout this course of course. So
that is how we connect these two things
but where is this swapping logic defined, where do we tell the browser that this is our own tag so to
say? Well we get two other important files for that, the app module is one important file,
this essentially is a file which is important for angular,
it defines the features our angular application has because angular thinks in applications and applications
are split up in modules or in this case in one module and that module defines the building blocks of
our application and components are not the only but probably the most important building block of an angular
application.
And what we're doing here in this app module is we're declaring the app component, this is registering it with
angular,
so now angular is aware of the app component
but this alone would only allow us to use that component selector in other angular components, not in
the index.html
file.
This is allowed by adding it to the bootstrap array too
and we typically only have one component in there because we only have one root component in a typical
angular application and all other components would be somehow nested in that root component
and this is also how we will build our application in this course.
So we get that bootstrap array which essentially tells angular that it should search the index.html
file which is loaded or in general the page in which the angular app is loaded for the app component identified
by its selector.
Now the only remaining thing is what actually starts the angular application
and that is the content of the main.ts file,
this is executed first and that is simply how it's defined,
you don't define that, this is what angular does or how the cli packages up our files in the end. The code
in here will execute first
and what we're doing here mainly is executing this line.
We import a bunch of stuff because for typescript to use a certain feature in a file, we need to import
it
so the typescript knows where the code for that feature is located and then we have this line here which
uses an angular feature, platform browser dynamic, that's a function, we execute that,
it essentially starts the angular application in the browser and angular is a browser side framework
so that seems to be important
and then we call another function on an object
this first function seems to return and that's the bootstrap module function
and there we pass a link to our own module,
the app module which is located in the app module file. We pass this as an argument
and this essentially tells angular start your angular application and start it with this module in
mind,
so now angular parses this modules so to say, registers these components which are declared, imports some
other modules because there are some modules angular ships with like the browser modules which contain
some core features of the angular framework
and last but not least, it detects a bootstrap array and then looks on the page it's running on for the
selector of this component. And this is how the angular application starts, how it detects the building
blocks that make up that application and how we in the end see our first app on the screen because we
use our own component which is understood and used by the angular framework.